 
 CT ABD & PELVIS WITH CONTRAST 
 ~ Reason: Evaluate for abscess/fluid collection and drain position.
 ~ Admitting Diagnosis: CHOLECYSTITIS
  Contrast: OPTIRAY Amt: 130
 

 ~ UNDERLYING MEDICAL CONDITION:
  82M s/p open CCY and biloma drainage with  drains in place--now draining
  purulent fluid.
 ~ REASON FOR THIS EXAMINATION:
  Evaluate for abscess/fluid collection and drain position.
 No contraindications for IV contrast
 

 ~ WET READ: MLHh 
  Multiloculated communicating fluid collections in GB fossa (w/ Surgicel),
  perihepatic space, and R abd/pelvis.  Some of these have characteristics
  concerning for hematoma/superinfx.
  R rectus abdominis edema and small IM fluid collections, cannot r/o infx.
  Malpositioned  drains, which course through collections, but tips end
  outside at hepatic dome and inferior liver tip.
  Bilat small pleural effusions, R>L.
 WET READ VERSION #1 MLHh 
  Multiloculated fluid collections in GB fossa, perihepatic space, and R
  abd/pelvis, with characteristics concerning for superinfx.
  R rectus abdominis edema and small IM fluid collections, cannot r/o infx.
  Malpositioned  drains at hepatic dome and inferior tip.
  Bilat small pleural effusions, R>L.
 

 ~ FINAL REPORT
 ~ INDICATION:  82-year-old male with acute on chronic cholecystitis, complicated
 by gallbladder perforation with biloma and subhepatic abscess.  Underwent open
 cholecystectomy, abscess drainage, and  drain placement on .  Drain
 output recently became purulent, and is now negligible.
 ~ COMPARISON:  .
 ~ TECHNIQUE:  Helical MDCT images were acquired from the lung bases through the
 greater trochanters with intravenous and oral contrast.  5-mm axial, coronal,
 and sagittal multiplanar reformats were generated.
 ~ FINDINGS:  There has been slight increase in size of a small-to-moderate
 simple right pleural effusion, with adjacent compressive atelectasis.
 Superimposed infection in this region cannot be excluded.  A trace left
 pleural effusion is slightly increased.
 The heart is normal in size, without pericardial effusion.  A stent is noted
 in the right coronary artery.  Calcifications are present in the descending
 thoracic aorta.
 ABDOMEN:  Changes of open cholecystectomy are noted, with cystic duct clips.
 In the gallbladder fossa, there is a relatively well-circumscribed,
 intermediate-density fluid collection measuring -4 cm AP x -3 cm TV x -0
 SI, with internal air-fluid level and foci of low attenuation consistent with
 
 porous Surgicel packing material.  This appears to demonstrate faint
 peripheral rim enhancement, and is peripheral to several additional
 perihepatic and intraperitoneal fluid collections.  The subcapsular fluid
 collection surrounding the right lobe of the liver is decreased in size and
 now measures up to 3 cm in maximum depth, previously -5 cm.  However, along
 the course of the surgical drains there are several foci of peripherally
 hyperdense collections the largest of which measures -0 cm AP x -0 cm TV x
 -1 cm SI.  This collection and a contiguous posterior collection along the
 left paracolic gutter demonstrate well-circumscribed borders with rim
 hyperdensity suggestive of enhancement.  In addition, there are areas of
 internal hyperdensity suggestive of hemorrhagic and/or proteinaceous fluid.
 More inferiorly, a loculated 5 cm TV x -8 cm AP x -7 cm SI collection is
 present in the right pelvis, separate from the catheter tract, without
 definite rim enhancement.  There is no evidence of active vascular
 extravasation.
 Skin staples are seen in the right upper quadrant from subcostal incision.
 There is diffuse right-sided intramuscular edema, with surrounding fascial
 thickening and fat stranding.  A focal intramuscular fluid collection in the
 right rectus abdominis measures -7 x -8 cm, with internal locules of gas.
 Multiple additional areas of intramuscular edema and thickening are present
 along the incision site.
 Two  drains are seen entering through the right mid abdomen.  The lateral
 drain courses along the right lateral abdominal wall, along the posterior
 margin of the dominant right abdominal fluid collection, and terminates at the
 inferior tip of the liver, at the periphery of the larger fluid collection.
 The medial drain courses anteriorly and superiorly through the center of the
 abdominal collection, then curves medially through the subcapsular hepatic
 fluid collection, with tip at the hepatic dome.
 The liver parenchyma appears slightly heterogeneous, likely due to hyperemia
 about the adjacent collections.  However, no focal mass lesions are
 identified.  There is mild periportal edema, but no intra- or extra-hepatic
 biliary ductal dilatation.  The pancreas is mildly atrophic.
 The spleen is normal in size.  The adrenals appear slightly full bilaterally,
 without definite nodularity.  The kidneys are slightly atrophic, but enhance
 and excrete contrast promptly and symmetrically, without masses or
 hydronephrosis.  Bilateral renal hypodensities are too small to characterize,
 but likely represent cysts.
 The stomach is normal.  Small-bowel loops appear mildly prominent, but are
 filled with fluid and air, without evidence of obstruction or inflammation.
 Note is made of a small fat-containing umbilical hernia.
 
 PELVIS:  The appendix is completely filled with enteric contrast and measures
 6 mm, with mild reactive wall thickening of the posterior wall adjacent to the
 pelvic fluid collection.  Mild reactive thickening is also noted at the
 lateral margin of the ascending colon, adjacent to the abdominal fluid
 collection.  There is no evidence of bowel obstruction or perforation.  A
 large amount of retained fluid is noted throughout the colon and rectum.
 The bladder is distended and appears normal.  Distal ureters are unremarkable.
 The prostate and seminal vesicles are normal, with coarse central
 calcifications.  Note is made of bilateral small fat-containing inguinal
 hernias.
 Coarse calcifications are noted in the abdominal aorta and iliac arteries,
 with mild-to-moderate celiac, SMA, and bilateral renal artery stenoses.
 Prominent celiac axis nodes measuring up to 7 mm and retroperitoneal nodes
 measuring up to 10 mm are likely reactive.  Note is made of diffuse body wall
 edema.
 The bones are diffusely demineralized, with multilevel degenerative changes
 most severe at L3-L4, with near bone-on-bone contact, endplate irregularity
 and sclerosis, and grade 1 retrolisthesis.  There are no suspicious lytic or
 sclerotic osseous lesions.
 ~ IMPRESSION:
 -  Interval open cholecystectomy with multiloculated gallbladder fossa,
 perihepatic, and right abdominopelvic fluid collections, some of which
 demonstrate characteristics concerning for infection and/or hemorrhage.  
 drains are located peripherally within some loculations of the perihepatic
 collections, but the subhepatic collection does not appear to be drained by
 the surgical drains.
 - Small right rectus abdominis collection along the surgical incision, gas
 containing, cannot exclude superinfection.
 -  Bilateral pleural effusions, right greater than left.
