 
 CT ABDOMEN W/CONTRAST; CT PELVIS W/CONTRAST 
 ~ Reason: assess for undrained collections w/PO and IV contrast
 ~ Admitting Diagnosis: BILE DUCT INJURY
  Contrast: OPTIRAY Amt: 130
 

 ~ UNDERLYING MEDICAL CONDITION:
  83 year old man with hepaticojejunostomy , now w/some bilious output in JP
  drain
 ~ REASON FOR THIS EXAMINATION:
  assess for undrained collections w/PO and IV contrast
 No contraindications for IV contrast
 

 ~ FINAL REPORT
 HISTORY:  83-year-old man status post hepaticojejunostomy, , with
 increased bilious output in the JP drain.  Evaluate for fluid collections.
 Comparison is made to a prior CT examination dated .
 ~ TECHNIQUE:  MDCT-acquired axial images were obtained through the abdomen and
 pelvis with oral and intravenous contrast.  Coronal and sagittal reformations
 were evaluated.
 ~ CT OF THE ABDOMEN WITH INTRAVENOUS CONTRAST:  Limited examination of the lung
 bases displays persistent small bilateral pleural effusions (right greater
 than left) with adjacent compression atelectasis.  Patient is noted to be
 status post hepaticojejunostomy with a JP drain and a biliary drain exiting
 externally along the right anterior abdominal wall.  No abnormal fluid
 collections are identified.  The intra-abdominal bowel appears grossly
 unremarkable.  Mild inflammatory changes in the fat surrounding the surgical
 site are identified, expected postoperatively, as is multiple small pockets of
 free air within the abdominal cavity.  The liver, spleen, pancreas, adrenal
 glands, and right kidney appear grossly normal.  There is unchanged appearance
 to simple cysts within the left kidney.  No evidence of renal calculi or
 hydronephrosis.  No pathologically enlarged lymph nodes are identified.  Mild
 calcification is noted within the coronary vascular tree and intra-abdominal
 aorta.
 ~ CT OF THE PELVIS WITH INTRAVENOUS CONTRAST:  There is extensive colonic
 diverticulosis without evidence of acute diverticulitis as well as small
 bilateral fat-containing inguinal hernias.  Decompressed air and Foley
 containing urinary bladder appears unremarkable.  No free fluid is noted
 within the pelvic cavity and no pathologically enlarged lymph nodes are
 identified.
 BONE WINDOWS:  No malignant-appearing osseous lesions are identified.  There
 are extensive degenerative changes with multiple bridging anterior osteophyte
 formation in the thoracolumbar spine.
 ~ IMPRESSION:
 -  No abnormal intra-abdominal fluid collections identified.  Expected
 postoperative inflammatory stranding of the fat and small pockets of intra-
 abdominal free air.
 
 -  Small bilateral pleural effusions with compression atelectasis.
 -  Extensive colonic diverticulosis without evidence of acute diverticulitis.
 -  Bilateral fat containing inguinal hernias.
